# Strange programming ideas

This is a repo of all the strange programming ideas I came up with, and thought that they were interesting enough to brain-dump the idea into a file so that I could come back to it later. Do note that some of these ideas are more formed than others, I just thought that the concept was interesting enough to note down for later.

# Index:
  - [Hyper Exokernel](./hyper-exokernel-system.md)
    - The main point of this one is that I wanted to extend the philosophy of an exokernel into something more practical. Basically, I took some inspiration from [GNU Hurd](https://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/), the [osdev wiki page on exokernels](https://wiki.osdev.org/Exokernel), and also some advice from my dad who has worked on aviation computers. The last one is where I got the idea for virtual devices and having one "master libOS" that controls the resources. But that design is not a requirement, just an idea that I think might be successful.
    - A big point on this one is that the libOSs are loaded as semi-privileged kernel modules, not as a standard library. Also, the libOSs are designed with capability tokens in mind, so that the exokernel does not need to spend memory keeping track of what each libOS is allowed to do, the token will let the kernel tell, also the tokens are cryptographically signed by the exokernel so that they can be trusted.
    - I also liked the idea of how GNU Hurd lets hardware be managed more directly, but I thought having the managers in userspace was unnecessarily slow, and using one standard IPC for everything is needlessly slow.
    - This is mostly just an idea, but some problems that this kernel archetecture could solve are:
      - Virtualization/Containerization: Because virtualizing devices is built-in to the kernel, any module could be spawned with only capabilities to use these virtual devices, and it could be spawned with the fake PID table so that it could think that the devices that it has are just some weird devices instead of realizing that it is inside of the exokernel system. The libOS would need to do some heavy lifting here too, such as actually mapping what would be a standalone kernel into something that the exokernel expects, but that should not be too hard.
      - Optimizing programs: Programs can start a stage-2 process under a libOS that is better suited to their needs rather than what the original libOS can provide.
      - Secure execution: A process could start a stage-2 in a new libOS that has exclusive control over a section of memory. This would allow some security garuntees that things like anti-cheats and banking could take advangace of. This also would reduce concerns of Kernel level anti-cheat being a backdoor, as the other resources could be virtualized without much concern.